# Data 

Primary : Data Collected by Research, Survey, Interview, Discussions and Experiments.

Secondary : Data which is Already Collected by Large Organization from Different Source and made Available for Resource. (Goverment Statistics, Census Data, Company Website, Database, Data Sets, Reports etc)

Data Collection :
- Gathering and Measuring Information from Countless Different Sources.
- Inorder to Use the Data to Develop Practical AI and ML Solution
- It must be Collected in such a Way that makes Sense for Business Problems.
- Data Collection allows to Capture a Record of Past Events so that we can use Data Analysis to Find Recurring Pattern, Hidden and Important Relationships,
  Build Predictive Models using ML Algorithms that look for Trends and Predict Future.

Template :
1. Remove Duplicates | Irrelevant Observations
   Duplications happen most often during Collection (Combining Data Sets from Multiple Sources, Scraping Data, Receiving Data from Clients or Muliple Departments.)

2. Fix Structural Error
   Naming Conventions | Typos | Incorrect Capitalization | Miss Labeled Categories or Class.

3. Filter Unwanted Outliers
   Incorrect Data Entry | Mistake

4. Handle Missing Data 
   Drop Observations that have Missing Data  (If Data Set is Very Large and Missing Data is very Small)
   Impute Missing Data based on other Observations.

5. Validate and QA
   Does the Data makes Sense?
   Does Data Follows Appropriate Rules for its Field?
   Does Data brings any Insights?
   Does Data helps to Find Trends?
   Data Quality Issue?

Characteristics of Quality Data
1.Validity : The Degree to which Data is According to Defined Business Rules.
2.Accuracy : Data is True 
3.Completeness : Data is Complete for Analysis.
4.Consistency : Consistent within Same Data Set. 
5.Uniformity : Data is Specified using Same Unit of Measure.

Benefits :
1.Increase Productivity
2.High Quality Information
3.Quick Decision Making

Data Cleaning | Cleansing
- Process of Fixing or Removing Incorrect, Irrelevant, Duplicate and Incomplete Data within a Data Set.
- While Combining Multiple Data Sources, there are many Opportunities for Data to be Duplicated or Mislabeled.
- Create a Template for Data Cleaning Process (Process Vary for Different Data Sets)

Data Cleaning Vs Data Transformation
- Cleaning is the Process that Removes Data that does not belong in your Data Set.
- Transformation is the Process of Converting Data from Invalid Format to the Desired Structured Format 
- Also Referred as Data Wrangling, Data Munging, Transforming and Mapping Data from One Raw form into Another Format for Analyzing.

[Data Preprocessing](https://hackernoon.com/what-steps-should-one-take-while-doing-data-preprocessing-502c993e1caa)

Data Preprocessing 
- First Step of ML
- Enhance Quality of Data. 
- Extract Meaningful Insights from Data.
- Technique of Preparing (Cleaning and Organizing) the Raw Data to make Suitable for a Building and Training Machine Learning Model.
- Data Mining Technique that Transforms Raw Data into Understandable and Readable Format.

[Upgrad Steps of Data Preprocessing](https://www.upgrad.com/blog/data-preprocessing-in-machine-learning/)
 